=head1 NAME

systeminstaller.conf - SystemInstaller configuration file

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This file, by default located in /etc/systeminstaller/systeminstaller.conf is used by
the SystemInstaller programis to determine what configuration information
should be applied to your system.

The file looks something like the following:

   # This is a comment
   binpath=         /usr/local/sbin:/usr/bin
   # The distinfo directory tree for SystemInstaller
   distinfo=       /usr/lib/systeminstaller/SystemInstaller/distinfo
   # The directory for package files
   pkgpath=        /tftpboot/rpms

   # SystemInstaller commands
   simachine=      mksimachine
   sidisk=         mksidisk
   siimage=        mksiimage

=head1 OPTIONS

The following options are available within the config file

=over 4

=item B<binpath>

The directories where the SIS executable files reside.
This is appended to the PATH environment variable and should
be a colon delimited list of path names.

=item B<distinfo>

The directory where the SystemInstaller distribution tree resides.

=item B<pkgpath>

The directory where the distribution installable packages reside.

=item B<simachine>

The name of the SystemInstaller command to define machines.

=item B<siimage>

The name of the SystemInstaller command to define images.

=item B<sidisk>

The name of the SystemInstaller command to define disk tables.

=item B<mkaiscript>

The name of the SystemImager command to create auto-install scripts.

=item B<addclients>

The name of the SystemImager command to define machines.

=item B<delimage>

The name of the SystemImager command to delete images.

=item B<ipmeth>

The default method for IP address assignment. Valid values are:

=over 4

=item B<static_dhcp> The same address will be assigned by DHCP at every boot.

=item B<dynamic_dhcp> A different address may be assigned by DHCP at every boot.

=item B<static> IP addresses are manually set.

=item B<replicant> IP addresses are not set. This is used when backing up a machine.

=back

=item B<piaction>

The default action to take after installation is complete. Valid values are:

=over 4

=item B<beep> Beep incessantly.

=item B<reboot> Restart the machine.

=item B<shutdown> Halt the machine.

=back

=item B<disktype>

The default disk type. Valid values are: B<ide>, B<scsi>

=item B<rpm>

The command to use to install rpm packages. 

=item B<rpmargs>

Additional arguments to add to the rpm command during installation.
With some distros (Mandrake, Suse) the I<--noscripts> option needs to be specified.

=item B<rpmrc>

The filename of the rpmrc file. This is used to determine architecture compatability.

=item B<dpkg>

The command to use to install Debian packages.

=item B<verbose>

Tells SystemInstaller commands to use verbose output. 0=no, 1=yes. Also settable with the I<--verbose> flag on individual comands.

=item B<pkgcachefile>

The filename to store the generated package cache in. A file with this name
will be placed in any package directory when an image is built. If the value of
this variable starts with a /. It will be considered an absolute path and the 
file will be placed there.

=item B<pkginstfail>

Whether to fail the image build when package installation fails. 
0=no, 1=yes.

=item B<postinstfail>

Whether to fail the image build when post-installation fails. 
0=no, 1=yes.

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

  Michael Chase-Salerno <mchasal@users.sf.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<AppConfig>, L<perl>

