=head1 NAME

SIS - The System Installation Suite

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The System Installation Suite (SIS) is a tool for remotely installing Linux
on groups of machines over a network.

=head1 Quick Install

The following steps are required for installation:

=over 4

Install Linux on the install server from CDs or some other
method

Install SystemInstaller and its prerequisites on the server.
The prereqs are:
        systemimager-server
        systemimager-common
        perl-AppConfig
        libdbdcsv
        perl-DBI
        perl-Tk (if using systeminstaller-x11)

You can use http://prdownloads.sourceforge.net/sisuite/sis-installer.pl
to download and install the SIS packages.

Copy your desired distribution's package files to a directory
on the server (default is /tftpboot/rpms).

Also copy systemconfigurator and perl-AppConfig files to this
directory.

Create your image using one of these methods:
tksis, buildimage, or mksiimage.
Package list files can be found in /usr/share/systeminstaller/distinfo/.
See mksiimage man page for package file format if creating your own. Make
sure that systemconfigurator and perl-AppConfig are listed in the file. 

Create your disk partition table using one of these methods:
tksis, buildimage, or mksidisk.
A sample disk partition file can be found in
/usr/share/doc/systeminstaller-[version]/disktable. See mksidisk man page
for disk partition file format if creating your own.

At this point, run mkautoinstallscript if you have been using the
mk* commands.

Create your client machines using one of these methods:
tksis, buildimage, or mksirange.

If you need to use network boot, or need to have static dhcpd, collect and
set the MAC address for your machines using mksimachine --Update

Run mkdhcpconf --outfile /etc/dhcpd.conf +other options to create
the dhcpd.conf file.

Touch /var/lib/dhcp/dhcpd.leases to enable dhcpd.

Restart the dhcpd, xinetd and systemimager services.

Set up remote booting using either mkautoinstalldiskette,
mkautoinstallcd, or mkbootserver (requires pxe package from your distro).
An alternate way of setting up the network boot server requires the 
syslinux package (available from your distro or syslinux.org):
a. Copy /usr/share/syslinux/pxelinux.0 as /tftpboot/pxelinux.bin
b. Create directory /tftpboot/pxelinux.cfg
c. Copy /etc/systemimager/pxelinux.cfg/default to /tftpboot/pxelinux.cfg
d. Copy kernel and initrd.img from /usr/share/systemimager/boot/i386/standard
to /tftpboot (requires the systemimager-i386boot-standard package).

Boot the remote machines using whichever method you
set up in the previous step. If network booting, remember to set the bios start
option of your machines accordingly.

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

  Michael Chase-Salerno <mchasal@users.sf.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<buildimage>, L<tksis>, L<mksirange>, L<mksimachine>, L<mksiimage>, L<mksidisk>, L<perl>

